Add fip-0001 and initialize the repo (#1)
filecoin-project/FIPs: FIPS/fip-0001.md

It is highly recommended that a single FIP contain a single key proposal or new idea. The more focused the FIP, the more successful it tends to be. A change to one client doesn't require an FIP; a change that affects multiple clients, or defines a standard for multiple apps to use, does.

An FIP must meet certain minimum criteria. It must be a clear and complete description of the proposed enhancement. The enhancement must represent a net improvement. The proposed implementation, if applicable, must be solid and must not complicate the protocol unduly.

## FIP Work Flow

> 

Reviewer: the PM repo link doesn‘t really specify people , so not super helpful atm

Reviewer 2: Who should be specified? The FIP editors?

Your role as the champion is to write the FIP using the style and format described below, shepherd the discussions in the appropriate forums, and build community consensus around the idea. Following is the process that a successful FIP will move along:

```
[ WIP ] -> [ DRAFT ] -> [ LAST CALL ] -> [ ACCEPTED ] -> [ FINAL ]
```

Each status change is requested by the FIP author and reviewed by the FIP editors. Use a pull request to update the status. Please include a link to where people should continue discussing your FIP. The FIP editors will process these requests as per the conditions below.

* **Active** -- Some Informational and Process FIPs may also have a status of “Active” if they are never meant to be completed. E.g. FIP 1 (this FIP).
* **Work in progress (WIP)** -- Once the champion has asked the Filecoin community whether an idea has any chance of support, they will write a draft FIP as a [pull request]. Consider including an implementation if this will aid people in studying the FIP.
  * :arrow_right: Draft -- If agreeable, FIP editor will assign the FIP a number and merge your pull request. The FIP editor will not unreasonably deny an FIP.

>   * :x: Draft -- Reasons for denying draft status include being too unfocused, too broad, duplication of effort, being technically unsound, not providing proper motivation or addressing backwards compatibility, or not in keeping with the [Ethereum philosophy](https://github.com/ethereum/wiki/wiki/White-Paper#philosophy). (TODO(why): we don't have a philosophy type thing... delete this?)

Reviewer: I think we should really have a small philosophy section somewhere, this will help a lot down the road when deciding how to change and expand Filecoin

Author: I think instead of having a philosophy section, which is nice, but less directly actionable, we should have a 'Filecoin Project Goals' section, that details what Filecoin is trying to accomplish.

I think this should be an expanded version of the Filecoin mission statement. I'll sketch up a draft of that today.

Reviewer: sounds great

Reviewer 3: +1. I think it would be really helpful to have a documented set of "principles" of operation, as more actionable than philosophy. These would represent "how" to complement the mission's "what".

Reviewer 4: @whyrusleeping do you have the expanded version of the Filecoin mission statement? Can you point me to the most complete version available?

@anorth looks like @momack2 started a principles doc [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/102C-KYc7IoPfxFeAez5GPXAaJmfKdSYV9qAY_ByRv1A/edit#), will iterate based on this.

Reviewer 4: @anorth @whyrusleeping - I'm working on this [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1zZbdkqJs2gNICYM3FmU7_5Qb9sqR-2w6fdFhjCk6bkU/edit#).

* **Draft** -- Once the first draft has been merged, you may submit follow-up pull requests with further changes to your draft until such point as you believe the FIP to be mature and ready to proceed to the next status. An FIP in draft status must be implemented to be considered for promotion to the next status (ignore this requirement for core FIPs).
  * :arrow_right: Last Call -- If agreeable, the FIP editor will assign Last Call status and set a review end date (`review-period-end`), normally 14 days later.
  * :x: Last Call -- A request for Last Call status will be denied if material changes are still expected to be made to the draft. We hope that FIPs only enter Last Call once, so as to avoid unnecessary noise on the RSS feed.

> * **Last Call** -- This FIP will listed prominently on the https://eips.ethereum.org/ website (subscribe via RSS at [last-call.xml](/last-call.xml)). (TODO(why): should we have a website for this?)

Reviewer: - ethereum website links should be removed
- I think a website is not really needed if we have an easy way to link to all the final call ones and link from the website

Author: so we *should* have somewhere on our website that points to these, not necessarily a dedicated website though, agree?

Reviewer: yes

  * :x: -- A Last Call which results in material changes or substantial unaddressed technical complaints will cause the FIP to revert to Draft.
  * :arrow_right: Accepted (Core FIPs only) -- A successful Last Call without material changes or unaddressed technical complaints will become Accepted.
  * :arrow_right: Final (Not core FIPs) -- A successful Last Call without material changes or unaddressed technical complaints will become Final.
* **Accepted (Core FIPs only)** -- This FIP is in the hands of the Filecoin client developers.  Their process for deciding whether to encode it into their clients as part of a hard fork is not part of the FIP process.

>   * :arrow_right: Final -- Standards Track Core FIPs must be implemented in at least three viable Filecoin clients before it can be considered Final. When the implementation is complete and adopted by the community, the status will be changed to “Final”.

Reviewer: three seems high given we currently don’t have that many impls, maybe sth like two thirds of all main clients or sth similar

Author: Yeah, we could just say "two major client implementations" for now

The current FIP editors are

` * Whyrusleeping (@whyrusleeping)`

` * Friedel Ziegelmayer (@dignifiedquire)`

## FIP Editor Responsibilities

For each new FIP that comes in, an editor does the following:

- Read the FIP to check if it is ready: sound and complete. The ideas must make technical sense, even if they don't seem likely to get to final status.
- The title should accurately describe the content.
- Check the FIP for language (spelling, grammar, sentence structure, etc.), markup (Github flavored Markdown), code style

If the FIP isn't ready, the editor will send it back to the author for revision, with specific instructions.

Once the FIP is ready for the repository, the FIP editor will:

- Assign an FIP number (generally the PR number or, if preferred by the author, the Issue # if there was discussion in the Issues section of this repository about this FIP)

- Merge the corresponding pull request

- Send a message back to the FIP author with the next step.

Many FIPs are written and maintained by developers with write access to the Filecoin codebase. The FIP editors monitor FIP changes, and correct any structure, grammar, spelling, or markup mistakes we see.

> The editors don't pass judgment on FIPs. We merely do the administrative & editorial part.

Reviewer 4: Yes

> The editors don't pass judgment on FIPs. We merely do the administrative & editorial part.

Reviewer 5: I find that hard to believe/implement when the FIP editors are also key core developers. Is it even possible to have a substantive discussion around the merit and feasibility of a FIP without Dig and Why offering their opinions?

---
fip: 0001
title: FIP Purpose and Guidelines
status: Active
type: Meta
author: Whyrusleeping <whyrusleeping@protocol.ai> 
        https://github.com/filecoin-project/FIPs/blob/master/FIPS/fip-0001.md
created: 2019-04-02
---

## What is an FIP?

> FIP stands for Filecoin Improvement Proposal. An FIP is a design document providing information to the Filecoin community, or describing a new feature for Filecoin or its processes or environment. The FIP should provide a concise technical specification of the feature and a rationale for the feature. The FIP author is responsible for building consensus within the community and documenting dissenting opinions.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
FIP stands for Filecoin Improvement Proposal. An FIP is a design document providing information to the Filecoin community, or describing a new feature for Filecoin or its processes or environment. The FIP should provide a concise technical specification of the feature and a rationale for the feature. The FIP author is responsible for building consensus within the community and documenting dissenting opinions.

Note: FIPs are intended to provide information regarding technical specifications or issues; for proposals on other, non-technical topics, please see this doc <link to Filecoin constitution>.
```

## FIP Rationale

We intend FIPs to be the primary mechanisms for proposing new features, for collecting community technical input on an issue, and for documenting the design decisions that have gone into Filecoin. Because the FIPs are maintained as text files in a versioned repository, their revision history is the historical record of the feature proposal.

For Filecoin implementers, FIPs are a convenient way to track the progress of their implementation. Ideally each implementation maintainer would list the FIPs that they have implemented. This will give end users a convenient way to know the current status of a given implementation or library.

## FIP Types

There are three types of FIP:

> - A **Standard Track FIP** describes any change that affects most or all Filecoin implementations, such as a change to the the network protocol, a change in block or transaction validity rules, proposed application standards/conventions, or any change or addition that affects the interoperability of applications using Filecoin. Furthermore Standard FIPs can be broken down into the following categories. Standards Track FIPs consist of three parts, a design document, implementation, and finally if warranted an update to the [formal specification].

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- A **Standard Track FIP** describes any change that affects most or all Filecoin implementations, such as a change to the the network protocol, a change in block or transaction validity rules, proposed application standards/conventions, or any change or addition that affects the interoperability of applications using Filecoin. Standards Track FIPs consist of three parts, a design document, implementation, and finally if warranted an update to the [formal specification]. Furthermore Standard FIPs can be broken down into the following categories:
```

>   - **Core** - improvements requiring a consensus fork, as well as changes that are not necessarily consensus critical but may be relevant to [“core dev” discussions](https://github.com/filecoin-project/pm). (TODO(why): need to think through this one a bit)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
  - **Core** - improvements requiring a consensus upgrade, as well as changes that are not necessarily consensus critical but may be relevant to future consensus upgrades. (TODO(why): need to think through this one a bit)
```

>   - **Core** - improvements requiring a consensus fork, as well as changes that are not necessarily consensus critical but may be relevant to [“core dev” discussions](https://github.com/filecoin-project/pm). (TODO(why): need to think through this one a bit)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  - **Core** - improvements requiring a consensus upgrade, as well as changes that are not necessarily consensus critical but may be relevant to future consensus upgrades.
```

  - **Networking** - includes improvements to data propogation, or any of the filecoin network protocols, see [Network Protocols] in the spec for a full listing. 
  - **Interface** - includes improvements around client [API/RPC] specifications and standards, and also certain language-level standards like method names. 
- An **Informational FIP** describes a Filecoin design issue, or provides general guidelines or information to the Filecoin community, but does not propose a new feature. Informational FIPs do not necessarily represent Filecoin community consensus or a recommendation, so users and implementers are free to ignore Informational FIPs or follow their advice.

> - A **Meta FIP** describes a process surrounding Filecoin or proposes a change to (or an event in) a process. Process FIPs are like Standards Track FIPs but apply to areas other than the Filecoin protocol itself. They may propose an implementation, but not to Filecoin's codebase; they often require community consensus; unlike Informational FIPs, they are more than recommendations, and users are typically not free to ignore them. Examples include procedures, guidelines, changes to the decision-making process, and changes to the tools or environment used in Filecoin development. Any meta-FIP is also considered a Process FIP.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- A **Meta FIP** describes a process surrounding Filecoin or proposes a change to (or an event in) a process. Process FIPs are like Standards Track FIPs but apply to areas other than the Filecoin protocol itself. They may propose an implementation, but not to Filecoin's codebase; they often require community consensus; unlike Informational FIPs, they are more than recommendations, and users are typically not free to ignore them. Examples include changes to the tools or environment used in Filecoin development. 

Note that FIPs are intended for technical issues only; proposals regarding decision-making processes or Filecoin recovery should be made in the relevant repos. ```

It is highly recommended that a single FIP contain a single key proposal or new idea. The more focused the FIP, the more successful it tends to be. A change to one client doesn't require an FIP; a change that affects multiple clients, or defines a standard for multiple apps to use, does.

> An FIP must meet certain minimum criteria. It must be a clear and complete description of the proposed enhancement. The enhancement must represent a net improvement. The proposed implementation, if applicable, must be solid and must not complicate the protocol unduly.

Reviewer 2: Proposal: a FIP should recommend an evaluation plan to be done in a Test Network in order to validate its contribution.

## FIP Work Flow

Parties involved in the process are you, the champion or *FIP author*, the [*FIP editors*](#fip-editors), and the *Filecoin Core Developers*.

> :warning: Before you begin, vet your idea, this will save you time. Ask the Filecoin community first if an idea is original to avoid wasting time on something that will be be rejected based on prior research (searching the Internet does not always do the trick). It also helps to make sure the idea is applicable to the entire community and not just the author. Just because an idea sounds good to the author does not mean it will work for most people in most areas where Filecoin is used. Examples of appropriate public forums to gauge interest around your FIP include [the Issues section of this repository], [the Filecoin Discourse Forum], and [the Filecoin community chat]. In particular, [the Issues section of this repository] is an excellent place to discuss your proposal with the community and start creating more formalized language around your FIP.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
:warning: Before you begin, vet your idea, this will save you time. Ask the Filecoin community first if an idea is original to avoid wasting time on something that will be be rejected based on prior research (searching the Internet does not always do the trick). It also helps to make sure the idea is applicable to the entire community and not just the author. Just because an idea sounds good to the author does not mean it will work for most people in most areas where Filecoin is used. Examples of appropriate public forums to gauge interest around your FIP include [the Issues section of this repository](https://github.com/filecoin-project/FIPs/issues), [the Filecoin Discourse Forum](https://discuss.filecoin.io/), and [the Filecoin community chat](https://filecoin.io/slack). In particular, [the Issues section of this repository](https://github.com/filecoin-project/FIPs/issues) is an excellent place to discuss your proposal with the community and start creating more formalized language around your FIP.
```

  * :x: Draft -- Reasons for denying draft status include being too unfocused, too broad, duplication of effort, being technically unsound, not providing proper motivation or addressing backwards compatibility, or not in keeping with the [Ethereum philosophy](https://github.com/ethereum/wiki/wiki/White-Paper#philosophy). (TODO(why): we don't have a philosophy type thing... delete this?)
* **Draft** -- Once the first draft has been merged, you may submit follow-up pull requests with further changes to your draft until such point as you believe the FIP to be mature and ready to proceed to the next status. An FIP in draft status must be implemented to be considered for promotion to the next status (ignore this requirement for core FIPs).
  * :arrow_right: Last Call -- If agreeable, the FIP editor will assign Last Call status and set a review end date (`review-period-end`), normally 14 days later.
  * :x: Last Call -- A request for Last Call status will be denied if material changes are still expected to be made to the draft. We hope that FIPs only enter Last Call once, so as to avoid unnecessary noise on the RSS feed.

> * **Last Call** -- This FIP will listed prominently on the Filecoin website (TODO(why): need to get this set up at some point)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* **Last Call** -- This FIP will listed prominently on the Filecoin website
```

  * :x: -- A Last Call which results in material changes or substantial unaddressed technical complaints will cause the FIP to revert to Draft.
  * :arrow_right: Accepted (Core FIPs only) -- A successful Last Call without material changes or unaddressed technical complaints will become Accepted.
  * :arrow_right: Final (Not core FIPs) -- A successful Last Call without material changes or unaddressed technical complaints will become Final.

> * **Accepted (Core FIPs only)** -- This FIP is in the hands of the Filecoin client developers.  Their process for deciding whether to encode it into their clients as part of a hard fork is not part of the FIP process.

Reviewer 7: The document is still lacking in how decisions are made and what makes an FIP "accepted". There are many constraints and entities in Filecoin. I would expect a checklist of constraints with reviews (e.g. security, implementation complexity, incentive, etc) and a checklist of different entities interests (e.g. storage clients, current miners large and small, future miners large and small, application developers, protocol researchers, ecosystem partners, token holders, etc)

  * :arrow_right: Final -- Standards Track Core FIPs must be implemented in at least two viable Filecoin clients before it can be considered Final. When the implementation is complete and adopted by the community, the status will be changed to “Final”.

> * **Final** -- This FIP represents the current state-of-the-art. A Final FIP should only be updated to correct errata.

Reviewer 6: To get the Final stamp the FIP must be implemented by 2 clients - so FIPs should be implemented when Accepted

- Assign an FIP number (generally the PR number or, if preferred by the author, the Issue # if there was discussion in the Issues section of this repository about this FIP)

- Merge the corresponding pull request

- Send a message back to the FIP author with the next step.

Many FIPs are written and maintained by developers with write access to the Filecoin codebase. The FIP editors monitor FIP changes, and correct any structure, grammar, spelling, or markup mistakes we see.

The editors don't pass judgment on FIPs. We merely do the administrative & editorial part.

## History

This document was derived heavily from [Ethereum's EIP 1] written by Martin Becze and Hudson Jameson, which was derived from [Bitcoin's BIP-0001] written by Amir Taaki which in turn was derived from [Python's PEP-0001]. In many places text was simply copied and modified. Although the PEP-0001 text was written by Barry Warsaw, Jeremy Hylton, and David Goodger, they are not responsible for its use in the Filecoin Improvement Process, and should not be bothered with technical questions specific to Filecoin or the FIP. Please direct all comments to the FIP editors.

> April 2, 2019: FIP 1 created from EIP 1

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Sep 8, 2020: FIP 1 created from EIP 1
```
